## Amazon Simple Storage (S3)

Panda uses S3 to store the original and encoded video files so first of all you should signup for an Amazon Web Service account.

### Create an AWS account

```json
{
  "Version": "2008-10-17",
  "Id": "PandaStreamBucketPolicy",
  "Statement": [
    {
      "Sid": "Stmt1344015889221",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::078992246105:root"
      },
      "Action": [
        "s3:AbortMultipartUpload",
        "s3:GetObjectAcl",
        "s3:DeleteObject",
        "s3:GetObject",
        "s3:PutObjectAcl",
        "s3:ListMultipartUploadParts",
        "s3:PutObject"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-BUCKET/*"
    },
    {
      "Sid": "Stmt1344015889221",
      "Effect": "Allow",
      "Principal": {
        "AWS": "arn:aws:iam::078992246105:root"
      },
      "Action": [
        "s3:GetBucketAcl",
        "s3:ListBucket",
        "s3:ListBucketMultipartUploads",
        "s3:GetBucketLocation"
      ],
      "Resource": "arn:aws:s3:::YOUR-BUCKET"
    }
  ]
}

```

1.  Get Amazon AWS Account

    Go to [http://aws.amazon.com](http://aws.amazon.com) and follow the instruction in `Sign Up`.

2.  Signup for S3

    Once your AWS account has been created, go to `Amazon Simple Storage Service (S3)` in the management console and sign up for the service.

3.  Grab your credentials

    Go to IAM Users settings (Services -> IAM -> Users) and create a new user for Panda. Then copy the generated user credentials (`Access Key ID` and `Secret Access Key`, you will later need them to create a Panda cloud).
    Now you will need to give Panda permissions to create new clouds and upload files to the newly created user. Find the user in IAM settings and click `Attach User Policy`. You will have to select appropriate user policy - either choose one of the predefined policies to let Panda in (`Amazon S3 Full Access`, more permissive like `Power User Access` would work but are not needed), or create a custom policy.

You are now ready to create a [Panda Cloud](https://app.pandastream.com/#/new) !

<aside class="notice">
  <strong>Note:</strong>
   Panda will only use your credentials to let it's own user access the S3 bucket and then forgets your credentials.
</aside>

### Limit Panda's access on your bucket

By default Panda only has access to the bucket. If you want to further restrict what Panda can do, you can use a policy file like the one shown below. This example contains the minimum set of operations that Panda needs for encoding and management.

In your AWS Console, S3, Properties, there is an "Edit bucket policy" button. Replace "YOUR-BUCKET" in the following text with your bucket name and paste it in the box. When done, you can remove the "pandastream" user in the list and save.
